In addition to the evaluation
matrix covered n the last lecture.
The performance of a classification
model can also be evaluated
using a Confusion Matrix.
We will introduce the Confusion Matrix,
in this lecture.
After this video you will be able to,
describe how a confusion matrix can
be used to evaluate a classifier.
Interpret the confusion matrix of a model.
And relate accuracy to values
in a confusion matrix.
Let's use our example again of predicting
whether a given animal is a mammal or not.
Recall that this is a binary
classification task, with the Class Label
being either Yes, indicating mammal or
No indicating non-mammal.
Now let's review the different Types
of Errors that you can get with
Classification.
If the True Label is Yes and
the Predicted Label is Yes, then this
is a True Positive, abbreviated as TP.
This is a case where the label is
correctly predicted as positive.
If the True Label is No and
the Predicted Label is No, then this
is a True Negative, abbreviated as TN.
This is the case where the label is
correctly predicted as negative.
If the True Label is No and
the Predicted Label is Yes, then this
is a False Positive, abbreviated as FP.
This is the case where the label is
incorrectly predicted as positive
when it should be negative.
If the True Label is Yes and
the Predicted Label is No,
then this is a False Negative
abbreviated as FN.
This is the case where the label is
incorrectly predicted as negative,
when it should be positive.
A Confusion Matrix can be used to
summarize the different types of
classification errors.
The True Positive cell corresponds to the
samples that are correctly predicted as
positive by the model.
The True Negative cell corresponds to
the samples that are correctly predicted
as negative.
The False Positive cell corresponds to
samples that are incorrectly predicted
as positive.
The False Negative cell corresponds to
samples that are incorrectly predicted
as negative.
Each cell has the count, or percentage
of samples, with each type of errors.
Let's look at an example to see how
a Confusion Matrix is filled in.
The table on the lists True Labels
along with the models prediction for
a data set of ten samples.
We'll summarize this results
in a Confusion Matrix.
First let's figure out
the number of true positives.
We call that a true positive occurrence
when the output is correctly predicted
as positive.
In other words, the true label is Yes and
the model's prediction is also Yes.
In this example, there are three true
positives as indicated by the red arrows.
We enter three and the true positive
cell in the Confusion Matrix.
Now let's look at the true negatives.
A true negative occurs when the output
is correctly predicted as negative.
In other words, the true label is No and
the models prediction is also No.
In this example,
there are four true negatives as
indicated by the green arrows.
We enter four in the true negative
cell in the Confusion Matrix.
What about false negatives?
A false negative occurs when the output
is incorrectly predicted as negative,
when it should be positive.
That is the true label is Yes,
and the model's prediction is No.
In this example,
there are two false negatives as
indicated by the purple arrows.
We enter two in the false negative
cell in the Confusion Matrix.
Finally we need to look
at false positives.
A false positive occurs,
when the input is incorrectly predicted
as positive, when it should be negative.
That is the true label is No and
models prediction is Yes.
In this example there is one false
positive as indicated by the yellow arrow.
We enter one in the false positive
cell in the Confusion Matrix.
This is our complete Confusion Matrix for
this example.
We see that the sum of the numbers
in the cells add up to ten,
which is the number of
samples in our dataset.
Note that the diagonal values,
true positives and
true negatives are samples
with Correct Predictions.
In our example, these values sum up to 7.
Meaning that 7 out of 10 samples were
correctly predicted by the model.
The higher the sum of the diagonal values,
the better the performance of the model.
The off diagonal values capture
the misclassified samples.
Where the model's predictions
do not match the true labels.
In this example these values indicate
that there were three misclassifications.
Smaller values for
the off diagonal cells in the confusion
matrix indicate better model performance.
Note that the diagonal values,
true positives and
true negatives are samples
with correct predictions.
In our example,
these values sum up to 7 meaning
that 7 out of 10 samples were
correctly predicted by the model.
The higher the sum of the diagonal values,
the better the performance of the model.
You may have noticed that the diagonal
values are related to Accuracy Rate.
Recall that accuracy is defined
as the sum of two positives and
true negatives, divided by all samples.
The sum of two positives and
two negatives is the sum of the diagonal
values in a confusion matrix.
The sum of the diagonal
values in a confusion matrix,
divided by the total number of
samples gives you the Accuracy Rate.
Similarly, the off diagonal values
are related to the Error Rate.
Recall that the Error Rate is
the opposite of the Accuracy Rate.
The sum of the off diagonal
values in a confusion matrix,
divided by the total number of samples,
gives you the Error Rate.
Looking at the values in the Confusion
Matrix can help you understand
the kind of Misclassifications
that your model is making.
A high value for
this cell indicated by the yellow arrow,
means that classifying the Positive
class is problematic for the model.
A high value for the cell indicated by
the orange arrow on the other hand,
means that classifying the Negative
class is problematic for the model.
In summary,
the Confusion Matrix is a table
used to summarize the different
types of errors for a classifier.
The values in a Confusion Matrix can
be used to evaluate the performance of
a classifier and are related to evaluation
metrics, such as accuracy and error rates.
They also indicate what other types of
misclassifications the model is making.
Note that in some implementations
of a Confusion Matrix, the true and
predictive labels are switched.
Be sure to review the documentation for
the software you're using to generate
a Confusion Matrix to understand
what each cell specifies.